Create patterns.md (#171)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/search/patterns.md

---
sidebar_position: 40
title: Search Patterns
---

> In today's world, a fundamental requirement for running a successful business is to be able to quickly and accurately locate certain information from large data repositories. This is called _indexing_ and _searching_.

Reviewer: At a later point, let's go through and remove this marketing language. It doesn't belong in our docs.

Reviewer: Please make a ticket for that and for rewriting this so that it is generic. Great content, but the presentation needs work. Might need to make a Search docs epic to hold the tickets. Don't forget to add the ImportTechDebt label when you do.

Author: Added a note about marketing language to DOC-393

GDN brings two main advantages over other data stores:

- GDN is equipped with a state-of-the-art indexing and search facility that enables users to perform sophisticated search operations on [multi-model](https://www.macrometa.com/topics/multi-model-database) data storage including key-value pairs, documents, and graphs.
  - You do not need to reformat data to make it compatible with GDN search.
  - GDN search is capable of complex operations such as faceted search and geospatial serach.
- Any time we update Macrometa GDN, [search indexes](../search/views.md) are automatically updated globally. 

This page provides detailed examples of possible search query patterns. All examples use the GDN Web console and HTTP REST API.

## Example Dataset

This example uses the London-based hotel reviews [dataset](https://github.com/Macrometacorp/datasets/blob/master/hotel-reviews/hotels.json) obtained from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/PromptCloudHQ/reviews-of-londonbased-hotels). The refined dataset has 10,000 reviews collected from a travel portal.

![Schema of a hotel review](/img/search/schema.jpg)

> You can download the dataset [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Macrometacorp/datasets/master/hotel-reviews/hotels.json). After downloading the JSON file, copy its content between the empty array definition of the data item in the following command. The dataset can be imported to your GDN federation by using the CURL command on a terminal as shown in the following example. 

Reviewer: Please rewrite the first sentence so that the link text is more descriptive than "here".

> Before running the example CURL, create a fabric named _Hotels_ in your GDN federation and then create a document collection called _hotel\_reviews_ within that fabric.

Reviewer: The correct capitalization for "curl" is "cURL". Not sure how stringent we want to be there. Your thoughts?

Author: @diana-macrometa Good catch - I've been fixing it whenever I see it. Probably not as important as fixing a typo (for example) but worth fixing IMO

Reviewer: Let's add it to the style guide, under Word Usage.

> Before running the example cURL, create a fabric named _Hotels_ in your GDN federation and then create a document collection called _hotel\_reviews_ within that fabric.

Reviewer: Is the slash supposed to be in _hotel reviews_?

Author: > Is the slash supposed to be in _hotel reviews_?

Yes, it's escaping the underscore so it displays as _hotel\_reviews_ instead of ending the italics after "hotel"

```sql
FOR review IN sample1_view1
  SEARCH ANALYZER(review.Property_Name != "Rhodes Hotel", "identity")
  RETURN review.Property_Name
```

| Property_Name |
| --- |
| Rhodes Hotel |
| Rhodes Hotel |
| Rhodes Hotel |
| Rhodes Hotel |
| ... |

#### Matching Multiple Strings

Exact value matching can be conducted considering several item values. You can use the logical `OR` operator, `IN` operator, or bind parameters.

The following examples query the same results:

```sql
FOR review IN sample1_view1
  SEARCH ANALYZER(review.Property_Name == "Apex London Wall Hotel" OR review.Property_Name == "Corinthia Hotel London", "identity")
  RETURN review.Property_Name
```

```sql
FOR review IN sample1_view1
  SEARCH ANALYZER(review.Property_Name IN ["Apex London Wall Hotel", "Corinthia Hotel London"], "identity")
  RETURN review.Property_Name
```

```sql
{
  "hotel_names": [
    "Apex London Wall Hotel",
    "Corinthia Hotel London"
  ]
}
```

For the following example, you must specify the bind parameter:

```sql
FOR review IN sample1_view1
  SEARCH ANALYZER(review.Property_Name IN @hotel_names, "identity")
  RETURN review.Property_Name
```

> These examples query a list of items (1860 items in total) as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These examples query a list of items (1,860 items in total) as shown below.
```

| Property_Name |
| --- |
| Apex London Wall Hotel |
| Corinthia Hotel London |
| Corinthia Hotel London |
| Apex London Wall Hotel |
| ... |

### Prefix Matching

You can search for strings or tokens that start with one or more substrings with the _prefix_ feature of Macrometa GDN.

In the following example, we want to find all hotels starting with the word `The `.

```sql
FOR review IN sample1_view1
  SEARCH ANALYZER(STARTS_WITH(review.Property_Name, "The "), "identity")
  RETURN review.Property_Name
```

> This example queries a list of 3963 records as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example queries a list of 3,963 records as shown below.
```

| Property_Name |
| --- |
| The Savoy |
| The Savoy |
| The Savoy |
| The Savoy |
| ... |

You can also include multiple prefixes. In the following example, we want to find all hotels starting with `The ` or `Hotel ``

```sql
FOR review IN sample1_view1
  SEARCH ANALYZER(STARTS_WITH(review.Property_Name, "The ") OR STARTS_WITH(review.Property_Name, "Hotel "), "identity")
  RETURN review.Property_Name
```

> This example queries a list of 4524 reviews that satisfy these criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example queries a list of 4,524 reviews that satisfy these criteria.
```

The following example shows how prefix matching is conducted on multiple attributes. In this scenario, we want to find all hotels starting with `The ` and the review titles that start with `Awesome `.

```sql
FOR review IN sample1_view1
  SEARCH ANALYZER(STARTS_WITH(review.Property_Name, "The ") AND STARTS_WITH(review.Review_Title, "Awesome "), "identity")
  RETURN {
  Property_Name : review.Property_Name,
  Review_Title : review.Review_Title
  }
```

This should result in the following three reviews:

| Property_Name | Review_Title |
| --- | --- |
| The Dorchester | Awesome luxury hotel |
| The Dorchester | Awesome Bathroom, great location, Superb service |
| The Savoy | Awesome Again |

### Range Queries

Range queries allow for searching data that are above, below, or between a minimum and a maximum value. The main use case for range queries is to search numeric values in documents.

Range queries can be specified comparing to a number, comparing to a numeric range, as well as comparing between strings. 

> When developing range queries in GDN we need not specify any Analyzers. This is because range queries deal with numeric values and those are not processed by Analyzers. Hence we first need to remove the identity analyzer which we created in Section 2.1. This can be achieved via the following CURL command.

Reviewer: Where is "Section 2.1"? Please replace the text with a link to the section.

### Token Search

This approach searches for token which can appear in any order. The words that are searched for has to be contained in the source string. First, a text analyzer view has to be defined via invoking a cURL command as follows,

```bash
curl --location --request POST 'https://<HOST>/_fabric/Hotels/_api/search/view' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'Accept: application/json' \
--header 'Authorization: <BEARER_TOKEN>' \
--data-raw '{
    "name": "sample1_view8",
  "links": {
    "hotel_reviews": {
                    "analyzers": [],
      "fields": {
        "Review_Text": {
          "analyzers": [
            "text_en"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "type": "search"
}
'
```

Once the view is ready we can specify a token search query which searches for the occurrence of at least one of the praising words `Awesome` or `Excellent` or `Lovely` in a review text and select its review score as the result as shown in the following example.

```sql
FOR review IN sample1_view8
  SEARCH ANALYZER(review.Review_Text IN TOKENS("Awesome Excellent Lovely", "text_en"), "text_en")
  RETURN review.Review_Rating
```

> This should query 3803 review ratings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This should query 3,803 review ratings:
```
